[Merged by Bors] - LDAP authentication (#374)
stackabletech/druid-operator: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/usage.adoc

==== LDAP

Druid supports xref:home:concepts:authentication.adoc[authentication] of users against an LDAP server.

> This requires setting up an xref:home:concepts:authentication.adoc#authenticationclass[AuthenticationClass] for the LDAP server.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This requires setting up an xref:home:concepts:authentication.adoc#authenticationclass[AuthenticationClass] for the LDAP server:

[source,yaml]
----
include::example$code/druid-ldap-authentication.yaml[tag=authclass]
----

```

NOTE: You can follow the xref:home:tutorials:authentication_with_openldap.adoc[] tutorial to learn how to create an AuthenticationClass for an LDAP server.

> Here is a reduced, non-functional YAML example, which shows the most essential parts which are needed to configure LDAP in the druid-operator:
> 
> [source,yaml]
> ----
> include::example$code/druid-ldap-authentication.yaml[]
> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Reference the AuthenticationClass in your DruidCluster resource:

[source,yaml]
----
include::example$code/druid-ldap-authentication.yaml[tag=druid]
----
```

Reviewer: See [Trino](https://github.com/stackabletech/trino-operator/blob/main/docs/modules/usage_guide/pages/security.adoc#ldap) for reference

This requires setting up an xref:home:concepts:authentication.adoc#authenticationclass[AuthenticationClass] for the LDAP server:

[source,yaml]
----
include::example$code/druid-ldap-authentication.yaml[tag=authclass]
----

NOTE: You can follow the xref:home:tutorials:authentication_with_openldap.adoc[] tutorial to learn how to create an AuthenticationClass for an LDAP server.

Reference the AuthenticationClass in your DruidCluster resource:

[source,yaml]
----
include::example$code/druid-ldap-authentication.yaml[tag=druid]
----

Check out the xref:home:tutorials:authentication_with_openldap.adoc[] tutorial to see a complete example of how to set LDAP authentication for another Stackable operator. You can also consult the xref:home:reference:authenticationclass.adoc[] reference, or
https://github.com/stackabletech/druid-operator/tree/main/tests/templates/kuttl/ldap-authentication[the LDAP test] suite.

==== Current Limitations and Upcoming Work

At the moment you can either use TLS authentication or LDAP authentication. Both methods together are not supported.

Communication with a TLS-secured LDAP server is currently not implemented, but will be tackled in the future.

> Authorization is done using the `allowAll` authorizer. Supporting for `memberOf` and OPA authorization are planned.

Reviewer 2: Can we mention anonymous access does not work currently?
